multiwitness/multiwitness.md, before:

This sample tries to explain how to submit a more complex transaction where two utxos from DIFFERENT users - user1, user2 can be utilized as inputs to pay out to a user3.

The transaction requires use of the witness-override and witness signing feature of cardano-cli

## High level steps

### query utxo for user 1, create environment variable UTXO1  var in prompt with txid#index 

### query utxo for user 2, create utxo2 var in prompt with txid#index

### build transaction with two tx-in, one tx-out to user3 and change-address to user2 (for example)

### use the --witness-override 2 --out-file txmultutxo.raw

    transaction view --tx-body-file txmultutxo.raw

### witness the transaction using below command for both user1, user2

    cardano-cli transaction witness --signing-key-file user1.skey --tx-body-file txmultutxo.raw --out-file user1.witness $TESTNET

    cardano-cli transaction assemble --tx-body-file txmultutxo.raw --witness-file user1.witness --witness-file user2.witness --out-file txmultutxo.signed

    cardano-cli transaction submit --tx-file txmultutxo.signed $TESTNET

Commit message:

updated exercise with additional challenge

multiwitness/multiwitness.md, after:

### This Exercise is left to the learner to test his understanding of the UTXO model.

This exercise tries to explain how to submit a more complex transaction where two utxos from DIFFERENT users - user1, user2 can be utilized as inputs to pay out to a user3.

The transaction requires use of the witness-override and witness signing feature of cardano-cli

## High level steps

### query utxo for user 1, create environment variable UTXO1  var in prompt with txid#index 

### query utxo for user 2, create utxo2 var in prompt with txid#index

### build transaction with two tx-in, one tx-out to user3 and change-address to user2 (for example)

### use the --witness-override 2 --out-file txmultutxo.raw

    transaction view --tx-body-file txmultutxo.raw

### witness the transaction using below command for both user1, user2

    cardano-cli transaction witness --signing-key-file user1.skey --tx-body-file txmultutxo.raw --out-file user1.witness $TESTNET

    cardano-cli transaction assemble --tx-body-file txmultutxo.raw --witness-file user1.witness --witness-file user2.witness --out-file txmultutxo.signed

    cardano-cli transaction submit --tx-file txmultutxo.signed $TESTNET
    
    
    
  Additional exercise: Work out how this feature could be used to conduct an ATOMIC swap 
  - Atomic swap meaning that the transaction either succeeds completely, OR FAILS completely
  - For now, assume the swap as below:
  - A has 250 Ada
  - B has 750 Ada
  - the swap tx should EXCHANGE THE two values between A and B
  - since we haven't yet studied native tokens, for now this is limited to swapping value.
  - Later on, we can actually exchange tokens using the same logic
