0_installation/cabal_build_linux.md, before:

# Installing the node from source

The **experimental** version (**1.35.3**) of the node may be downloaded from the [cardano-node GitHub Releases](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases) page by git checking out the **tags/1.35.3-testnetonly** for now (till they update the latest tag with this)


Please follow the steps as below to make this happen.

#### Prerequisites

To set up your platform, you will need:


| Network | CPU Cores | Free RAM | Free storage | OS for Pasive Node | OS for Stake pool |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | 
| Mainnet | 2 | 16GB | 75GB of free storage (100GB recommended for future growth | Linux / Windows** / MacOS | Linux | 
| Testnet | 2 | 4GB | 20GB | Linux / Windows** / MacOS | Linux |

****Note** If you are building on Windows, we recommend using WSL2 under Windows 10 as this provides a development and execution environment that is very similar to Ubuntu.


#### Installation dependencies

To download the source code and build it, you need the following packages and tools on your Linux system:

* the version control system `git`,
* the `gcc` C-compiler,
* C++ support for `gcc`,
* developer libraries for the arbitrary precision library `gmp`,
* developer libraries for the compression library `zlib`,
* developer libraries for `systemd`,
* developer libraries for `ncurses`,
* `ncurses` compatibility libraries,
* the Haskell build tool `cabal`,
* the GHC Haskell compiler (version `8.10.7` or above).

In Redhat, Fedora, and Centos:

```bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install git gcc gcc-c++ tmux gmp-devel make tar xz wget zlib-devel libtool autoconf -y
sudo install systemd-devel ncurses-devel ncurses-compat-libs which jq openssl-devel lmdb-devel -y
```

#### For Debian/Ubuntu, use the following instead:

```bash
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get install automake build-essential pkg-config libffi-dev libgmp-dev libssl-dev libtinfo-dev libsystemd-dev zlib1g-dev make g++ tmux git jq wget libncursesw5 libtool autoconf liblmdb-dev -y
```

If you are using a different flavor of Linux, you will need to use the correct package manager for your platform instead of `yum` or `apt-get`, and the names of the packages you need to install might differ.  On MacOSX, use the Homebrew (`brew`) installer.

#### Installing the Haskell environment

The recommended way to install the Haskell tools is via [GHCup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/). Its installation script will guide you through the installation, and warn you about packages that you have to make sure are installed in the system (the ones described on the step above). Check [this page](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/install/) for further explanation on the installation process.

Once GHCup is installed, open a new terminal (to get an updated environment) and run:

```bash
ghcup install ghc 8.10.7
ghcup install cabal 3.6.2.0
ghcup set ghc 8.10.7
ghcup set cabal 3.6.2.0
```

Alternatively, with `ghcup tui` you can pick the specific versions of the tools that you want to install, in particular you should have installed and set:
- `cabal >= 3.6.2.0`
- `GHC >= 8.10.7`

To check that you will use the GHCup tools (and not any other installation on the system), you can execute

```bash
which cabal
```

and it should return a path of this shape: `/home/<user>/.ghcup/bin/cabal`.

#### Installing Libsodium

Cardano uses a custom fork of `libsodium` which exposes some internal functions
and adds some other new functions. This fork lives in
[https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium](https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium).
Users can choose to either install that custom version of `libsodium` or
otherwise tell `cabal` to use a ported version included in Cardano crypto
libraries.

The C code is merely a port of the bits missing in a normal `libsodium`
installation, so it should be as performant as installing the custom `libsodium`
fork.

##### Installing the custom libsodium

Create a working directory for your builds:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-src
cd ~/cardano-src
```

Download and install libsodium:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium
cd libsodium
git checkout 66f017f1
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
```

Add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file and source it (or re-open the terminal):

```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"
```

##### Using the ported `c` code

In order to avoid having to install the custom version, `cardano-crypto-praos`
defines a `cabal` flag that makes use of C code located
[here](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/tree/master/cardano-crypto-praos/cbits).
To enable this code, one has to add the following code in the
`cabal.project.local` file:

```bash
package cardano-crypto-praos
  flags: -external-libsodium-vrf
```

For this to work, `libsodium` has to be in the system. For Ubuntu, this is achieved by:

```bash
sudo apt install libsodium-dev
```

#### Installing Secp256k1

Create a working directory for your builds:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-src
cd ~/cardano-src
```

Download and install `libsecp256k1`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1
cd secp256k1
git checkout ac83be33
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-experimental
make
sudo make install
```

#### Downloading the source code for cardano-node

Create a working directory for your builds:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-src
cd ~/cardano-src
```

Download the Cardano node sources:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node.git
```

Change the working directory to the downloaded source code folder:

```bash
cd cardano-node
```


Check out the latest version of cardano-node (choose the tag with the highest version number: ``TAGGED-VERSION``):

```bash
git checkout -f tags/1.35.3-testnetonly
```

#### Configuring the build options

We explicitly use the GHC version that we installed earlier.  This avoids defaulting to a system version of GHC that might be different than the one you have installed.

```bash
echo "with-compiler: ghc-8.10.7" >> cabal.project.local
```

#### Building and installing the node

Build the node and CLI with `cabal`:

```bash
cabal build all
```

Install the newly built node and CLI commands to the `~/.local/bin` directory:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-node)" ~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-cli)" ~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux
```

**Note:** `~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux/` should be prependeded to the `$PATH`.

Note, we avoid using `cabal install` because that method prevents the installed binaries from reporting
the git revision with the `--version` switch.

Check the version that has been installed:

```bash
cardano-cli --version
```

Repeat the above process when you need to update to a new version.


**Note:** As a worst-case scenario, in case the node doesn't seem to parse the existing chain db, It might be necessary to delete the `db`-folder \(the database-folder\) before running an updated version of the node.

Commit message:

added note for generic steps

0_installation/cabal_build_linux.md, after:

# Installing the node from source

The **experimental** version (**1.35.3**) of the node may be downloaded from the [cardano-node GitHub Releases](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases) page by git checking out the **tags/1.35.3-testnetonly** for now (till they update the latest tag with this)

## Note: the same process will work for any tag, just use the relevant tag when doing the git checkout command

Please follow the steps as below to make this happen.

#### Prerequisites

To set up your platform, you will need:


| Network | CPU Cores | Free RAM | Free storage | OS for Pasive Node | OS for Stake pool |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | 
| Mainnet | 2 | 16GB | 75GB of free storage (100GB recommended for future growth | Linux / Windows** / MacOS | Linux | 
| Testnet | 2 | 4GB | 20GB | Linux / Windows** / MacOS | Linux |

****Note** If you are building on Windows, we recommend using WSL2 under Windows 10 as this provides a development and execution environment that is very similar to Ubuntu.


#### Installation dependencies

To download the source code and build it, you need the following packages and tools on your Linux system:

* the version control system `git`,
* the `gcc` C-compiler,
* C++ support for `gcc`,
* developer libraries for the arbitrary precision library `gmp`,
* developer libraries for the compression library `zlib`,
* developer libraries for `systemd`,
* developer libraries for `ncurses`,
* `ncurses` compatibility libraries,
* the Haskell build tool `cabal`,
* the GHC Haskell compiler (version `8.10.7` or above).

In Redhat, Fedora, and Centos:

```bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install git gcc gcc-c++ tmux gmp-devel make tar xz wget zlib-devel libtool autoconf -y
sudo install systemd-devel ncurses-devel ncurses-compat-libs which jq openssl-devel lmdb-devel -y
```

#### For Debian/Ubuntu, use the following instead:

```bash
sudo apt-get update -y
sudo apt-get install automake build-essential pkg-config libffi-dev libgmp-dev libssl-dev libtinfo-dev libsystemd-dev zlib1g-dev make g++ tmux git jq wget libncursesw5 libtool autoconf liblmdb-dev -y
```

If you are using a different flavor of Linux, you will need to use the correct package manager for your platform instead of `yum` or `apt-get`, and the names of the packages you need to install might differ.  On MacOSX, use the Homebrew (`brew`) installer.

#### Installing the Haskell environment

The recommended way to install the Haskell tools is via [GHCup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/). Its installation script will guide you through the installation, and warn you about packages that you have to make sure are installed in the system (the ones described on the step above). Check [this page](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/install/) for further explanation on the installation process.

Once GHCup is installed, open a new terminal (to get an updated environment) and run:

```bash
ghcup install ghc 8.10.7
ghcup install cabal 3.6.2.0
ghcup set ghc 8.10.7
ghcup set cabal 3.6.2.0
```

Alternatively, with `ghcup tui` you can pick the specific versions of the tools that you want to install, in particular you should have installed and set:
- `cabal >= 3.6.2.0`
- `GHC >= 8.10.7`

To check that you will use the GHCup tools (and not any other installation on the system), you can execute

```bash
which cabal
```

and it should return a path of this shape: `/home/<user>/.ghcup/bin/cabal`.

#### Installing Libsodium

Cardano uses a custom fork of `libsodium` which exposes some internal functions
and adds some other new functions. This fork lives in
[https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium](https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium).
Users can choose to either install that custom version of `libsodium` or
otherwise tell `cabal` to use a ported version included in Cardano crypto
libraries.

The C code is merely a port of the bits missing in a normal `libsodium`
installation, so it should be as performant as installing the custom `libsodium`
fork.

##### Installing the custom libsodium

Create a working directory for your builds:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-src
cd ~/cardano-src
```

Download and install libsodium:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium
cd libsodium
git checkout 66f017f1
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
```

Add the following to your `~/.bashrc` file and source it (or re-open the terminal):

```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"
```

##### Using the ported `c` code

In order to avoid having to install the custom version, `cardano-crypto-praos`
defines a `cabal` flag that makes use of C code located
[here](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-base/tree/master/cardano-crypto-praos/cbits).
To enable this code, one has to add the following code in the
`cabal.project.local` file:

```bash
package cardano-crypto-praos
  flags: -external-libsodium-vrf
```

For this to work, `libsodium` has to be in the system. For Ubuntu, this is achieved by:

```bash
sudo apt install libsodium-dev
```

#### Installing Secp256k1

Create a working directory for your builds:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-src
cd ~/cardano-src
```

Download and install `libsecp256k1`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1
cd secp256k1
git checkout ac83be33
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-experimental
make
sudo make install
```

#### Downloading the source code for cardano-node

Create a working directory for your builds:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-src
cd ~/cardano-src
```

Download the Cardano node sources:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node.git
```

Change the working directory to the downloaded source code folder:

```bash
cd cardano-node
```


Check out the latest version of cardano-node (choose the tag with the highest version number: ``TAGGED-VERSION``):

```bash
git checkout -f tags/1.35.3-testnetonly
```

#### Configuring the build options

We explicitly use the GHC version that we installed earlier.  This avoids defaulting to a system version of GHC that might be different than the one you have installed.

```bash
echo "with-compiler: ghc-8.10.7" >> cabal.project.local
```

#### Building and installing the node

Build the node and CLI with `cabal`:

```bash
cabal build all
```

Install the newly built node and CLI commands to the `~/.local/bin` directory:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-node)" ~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-cli)" ~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux
```

**Note:** `~/cardano-node-1.35.3-linux/` should be prependeded to the `$PATH`.

Note, we avoid using `cabal install` because that method prevents the installed binaries from reporting
the git revision with the `--version` switch.

Check the version that has been installed:

```bash
cardano-cli --version
```

Repeat the above process when you need to update to a new version.


**Note:** As a worst-case scenario, in case the node doesn't seem to parse the existing chain db, It might be necessary to delete the `db`-folder \(the database-folder\) before running an updated version of the node.
