0_installation/preview_preprod_network/1_macos_m1_process.md, before:

Based upon standard document for Installation on MacOS (https://developers.cardano.org/docs/get-started/installing-cardano-node/#macos) with some steps added as per suggestions.

description: This guide shows how to build and install the cardano-node and cardano-cli from the source-code for MacOS, including the new M1 chip


--- 

### Overview

This guide will show you how to compile and install the `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` into MacOS, including the new M1 chip


### Prerequisites

To set up the components, you will need:

**MacOS** or M1 MacOS
* An Intel or ARM (M1) processor 
* **16GB** of RAM (recommended) and at least **75GB** of free disk space

:::note
If intending to connect to mainnet instance, the requirements for RAM and storage would increase beyond baselines above.


## MacOS

In this section, we will walk you through the process of downloading, compiling, and installing `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` into your **MacOS-based** operating system. 

#### Installing Operating System dependencies

To download the source code and build it, you need the following packages and tools on your MacOS system:

* [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode) - The Apple Development IDE and SDK/Tools
* [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/), you can install it by typing `xcode-select --install` in the terminal.
* [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) - The Missing Package Manager for MacOS (or Linux)

#### Installing Homebrew packages

For the `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` components to compile properly, we will need to install some libraries via `brew`: 

```bash
brew install jq
brew install libtool
brew install autoconf
brew install automake
brew install pkg-config
```

#### You will need to install llvm in case you are using M1

```
brew install llvm
```

#### Installing GHC and Cabal

The fastest way to install **GHC** (Glassglow Haskell Compiler) and **Cabal** (Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries) is to use [ghcup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup).

Use the following command to install `ghcup`
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://get-ghcup.haskell.org | sh
```
Please follow the instructions and provide the necessary input to the installer.

`Do you want ghcup to automatically add the required PATH variable to "/home/ubuntu/.bashrc"?` - (P or enter)

`Do you want to install haskell-language-server (HLS)?` - (N or enter)

`Do you want to install stack?` - (N or enter)

`Press ENTER to proceed or ctrl-c to abort.` (enter)

Once complete, you should have `ghc` and `cabal` installed to your system.


:::note
`ghcup` will try to detect your shell and will ask you to add it to the environment variables. Please restart your shell/terminal after installing `ghcup`
:::

You can check if `ghcup` has been installed properly by typing `ghcup --version` into the terminal. You should see something similar to the following: 

```
The GHCup Haskell installer, version v0.1.17.4
```

`ghcup` will install the latest stable version of `ghc`. However, as of the time writing this, [Input-Output](https://iohk.io) recommends using `ghc 8.10.7`. So, we will use `ghcup` to install and switch to the required version. 

```bash
ghcup install ghc 8.10.7
ghcup set ghc 8.10.7
```

`ghcup` will install the latest stable version of `cabal`. However, as of the time of writing this, [Input-Output](https://iohk.io) recommends using `cabal 3.6.2.0`. So, we will use `ghcup` to install and switch to the required version.

```bash
ghcup install cabal 3.6.2.0
ghcup set cabal 3.6.2.0
```

Finally, we check if we have the correct `ghc` and `cabal` versions installed.

Check `ghc` version: 
```bash
ghc --version
```

You should see something like this: 
```
The Glorious Glasgow Haskell Compilation System, version 8.10.7
```

Check `cabal` version: 
```bash
cabal --version
```

You should see something like this: 

```
cabal-install version 3.6.2.0
compiled using version 3.6.2.0 of the Cabal library
```

:::important
Please confirm that the versions you have installed matches the recommended versions above. If not, check if you have missed any of the previous steps.
:::

#### Downloading & Compiling

Let's create a working directory to store the source-code and builds for the components.

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/cardano-src
cd $HOME/cardano-src
```
Next, we will download, compile and install `libsodium`.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium
cd libsodium
git checkout 66f017f1
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
```

Then we will add the following environment variables to your shell profile. E.G `$HOME/.zshrc` or `$HOME/.bashrc` depending on what shell application you are using. Add the following to the bottom of your shell profile/config file so the compiler can be aware that `libsodium` is installed on your system.

```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"
```

### If you installed llvm for M1, then you will need to add this too:

```bash
export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/bin:$PATH"
```

:::note
llvm installation path might differs based on your installation, if you used default installation, it should be ok. Please check screen after you installed llvm to see this info, if you forgot or lost it, you can just reinstall llvm and then you will see them again.
:::

Once saved, we will then reload your shell profile to use the new variables. We can do that by typing `source $HOME/.bashrc` or `source $HOME/.zshrc` (***depending on the shell application you use***).

We need to install Secp256k1 what is required for 1.35.0 cardano-node version

Download and install libsecp256k1:
```bash
cd $HOME/cardano-src
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1
cd secp256k1
git checkout ac83be33
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-experimental
make
make check
sudo make install
```

Now we are ready to download, compile and install `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli`. But first, we have to make sure we are back at the root of our working directory:

```bash
cd $HOME/cardano-src
```

Download the `cardano-node` repository and checkout the 1.35.3 tag

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node.git
cd cardano-node
git checkout tags/1.35.3
```
### Important
If upgrading an existing node, please ensure that you have read the [release notes on GitHub](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases) for any changes.

##### Configuring the build options

We explicitly use the `ghc` version that we installed earlier. This avoids defaulting to a system version of `ghc` that might be newer or older than the one you have installed.

```
cabal configure --with-compiler=ghc-8.10.7
```

### edit .bashrc / .zshrc and input the below lines

```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"

#For compilers to find llvm you may need to set:
export LDFLAGS="-L/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/lib -L/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib"
export CPPFLAGS="-I/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/include -I/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/include"

PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/libtool/libexec/gnubin:/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib/pkgconfig:/opt/homebrew/bin:/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/bin:$PATH"
```

#### You will need to run following commands on M1, those commands will set some cabal related options before building
```
echo "package trace-dispatcher" >> cabal.project.local
echo "  ghc-options: -Wwarn" >> cabal.project.local
echo "" >> cabal.project.local
```

### Add the below lines to the cabal.project file under cardano-node/ folder
```
package HsOpenSSL
  extra-include-dirs: /opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/include
  extra-lib-dirs: /opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib
```

#### Building and installing the node
```bash
cabal build all
```

Install the newly built node and CLI to the $HOME/.local/bin directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-node)" $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-cli)" $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos
```

We have to add this line below our shell profile so that the shell/terminal can recognize that `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` are global commands. (`$HOME/.zshrc` or `$HOME/.bashrc` ***depending on the shell application you use***)

```bash
export PATH="$HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos/:$PATH"
```

Once saved, reload your shell profile by typing `source $HOME/.zshrc` or `source $HOME/.bashrc` (***depending on the shell application you use***).

Check the version that has been installed:
```
cardano-cli --version
cardano-node --version
```
### NOTE: In case you get a "Killed: 9" error when executing either cardano-node or cardano-cli, please delete any existing binary files in the $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos folder, run a cabal build all and copy the files into the relevant folder. 

Congratulations, you have successfully installed Cardano components into your MacOS system! 🎉🎉🎉

### Now go ahead and use the **2_setup_preview_preprod_networks.md** to setup the relevant preview AND preprod networks.

Commit message:

added explicit reminder to reload zshrc

0_installation/preview_preprod_network/1_macos_m1_process.md, after:

Based upon standard document for Installation on MacOS (https://developers.cardano.org/docs/get-started/installing-cardano-node/#macos) with some steps added as per suggestions.

description: This guide shows how to build and install the cardano-node and cardano-cli from the source-code for MacOS, including the new M1 chip


--- 

### Overview

This guide will show you how to compile and install the `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` into MacOS, including the new M1 chip


### Prerequisites

To set up the components, you will need:

**MacOS** or M1 MacOS
* An Intel or ARM (M1) processor 
* **16GB** of RAM (recommended) and at least **75GB** of free disk space

:::note
If intending to connect to mainnet instance, the requirements for RAM and storage would increase beyond baselines above.


## MacOS

In this section, we will walk you through the process of downloading, compiling, and installing `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` into your **MacOS-based** operating system. 

#### Installing Operating System dependencies

To download the source code and build it, you need the following packages and tools on your MacOS system:

* [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode) - The Apple Development IDE and SDK/Tools
* [Xcode Command Line Tools](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/), you can install it by typing `xcode-select --install` in the terminal.
* [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) - The Missing Package Manager for MacOS (or Linux)

#### Installing Homebrew packages

For the `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` components to compile properly, we will need to install some libraries via `brew`: 

```bash
brew install jq
brew install libtool
brew install autoconf
brew install automake
brew install pkg-config
```

#### You will need to install llvm in case you are using M1

```
brew install llvm
```

#### Installing GHC and Cabal

The fastest way to install **GHC** (Glassglow Haskell Compiler) and **Cabal** (Common Architecture for Building Applications and Libraries) is to use [ghcup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup).

Use the following command to install `ghcup`
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://get-ghcup.haskell.org | sh
```
Please follow the instructions and provide the necessary input to the installer.

`Do you want ghcup to automatically add the required PATH variable to "/home/ubuntu/.bashrc"?` - (P or enter)

`Do you want to install haskell-language-server (HLS)?` - (N or enter)

`Do you want to install stack?` - (N or enter)

`Press ENTER to proceed or ctrl-c to abort.` (enter)

Once complete, you should have `ghc` and `cabal` installed to your system.


:::note
`ghcup` will try to detect your shell and will ask you to add it to the environment variables. Please restart your shell/terminal after installing `ghcup`
:::

You can check if `ghcup` has been installed properly by typing `ghcup --version` into the terminal. You should see something similar to the following: 

```
The GHCup Haskell installer, version v0.1.17.4
```

`ghcup` will install the latest stable version of `ghc`. However, as of the time writing this, [Input-Output](https://iohk.io) recommends using `ghc 8.10.7`. So, we will use `ghcup` to install and switch to the required version. 

```bash
ghcup install ghc 8.10.7
ghcup set ghc 8.10.7
```

`ghcup` will install the latest stable version of `cabal`. However, as of the time of writing this, [Input-Output](https://iohk.io) recommends using `cabal 3.6.2.0`. So, we will use `ghcup` to install and switch to the required version.

```bash
ghcup install cabal 3.6.2.0
ghcup set cabal 3.6.2.0
```

Finally, we check if we have the correct `ghc` and `cabal` versions installed.

Check `ghc` version: 
```bash
ghc --version
```

You should see something like this: 
```
The Glorious Glasgow Haskell Compilation System, version 8.10.7
```

Check `cabal` version: 
```bash
cabal --version
```

You should see something like this: 

```
cabal-install version 3.6.2.0
compiled using version 3.6.2.0 of the Cabal library
```

:::important
Please confirm that the versions you have installed matches the recommended versions above. If not, check if you have missed any of the previous steps.
:::

#### Downloading & Compiling

Let's create a working directory to store the source-code and builds for the components.

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/cardano-src
cd $HOME/cardano-src
```
Next, we will download, compile and install `libsodium`.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/libsodium
cd libsodium
git checkout 66f017f1
./autogen.sh
./configure
make
sudo make install
```

Then we will add the following environment variables to your shell profile. E.G `$HOME/.zshrc` or `$HOME/.bashrc` depending on what shell application you are using. Add the following to the bottom of your shell profile/config file so the compiler can be aware that `libsodium` is installed on your system.

```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"
```

### If you installed llvm for M1, then you will need to add this too:

```bash
export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/bin:$PATH"
```

:::note
llvm installation path might differs based on your installation, if you used default installation, it should be ok. Please check screen after you installed llvm to see this info, if you forgot or lost it, you can just reinstall llvm and then you will see them again.
:::

Once saved, we will then reload your shell profile to use the new variables. We can do that by typing `source $HOME/.bashrc` or `source $HOME/.zshrc` (***depending on the shell application you use***).

We need to install Secp256k1 what is required for 1.35.0 cardano-node version

Download and install libsecp256k1:
```bash
cd $HOME/cardano-src
git clone https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1
cd secp256k1
git checkout ac83be33
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-experimental
make
make check
sudo make install
```

Now we are ready to download, compile and install `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli`. But first, we have to make sure we are back at the root of our working directory:

```bash
cd $HOME/cardano-src
```

Download the `cardano-node` repository and checkout the 1.35.3 tag

```bash
git clone https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node.git
cd cardano-node
git checkout tags/1.35.3
```
### Important
If upgrading an existing node, please ensure that you have read the [release notes on GitHub](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases) for any changes.

##### Configuring the build options

We explicitly use the `ghc` version that we installed earlier. This avoids defaulting to a system version of `ghc` that might be newer or older than the one you have installed.

```
cabal configure --with-compiler=ghc-8.10.7
```

### edit .bashrc / .zshrc and input the below lines, save the file and then reload it using "source ~/.bashrc (or .zshrc)"

```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH"

#For compilers to find llvm you may need to set:
export LDFLAGS="-L/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/lib -L/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib"
export CPPFLAGS="-I/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/include -I/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/include"

PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/libtool/libexec/gnubin:/opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib/pkgconfig:/opt/homebrew/bin:/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/bin:$PATH"
```
Reload the zshrc file (or exit the terminal and restart it)
```
source ~/.bashrc

```

#### You will need to run following commands on M1, those commands will set some cabal related options before building
```
echo "package trace-dispatcher" >> cabal.project.local
echo "  ghc-options: -Wwarn" >> cabal.project.local
echo "" >> cabal.project.local
```

### Add the below lines to the cabal.project file under cardano-node/ folder
```
package HsOpenSSL
  extra-include-dirs: /opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/include
  extra-lib-dirs: /opt/homebrew/opt/openssl@3/lib
```

#### Building and installing the node
```bash
cabal build all
```

Install the newly built node and CLI to the $HOME/.local/bin directory:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-node)" $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos
cp -p "$(./scripts/bin-path.sh cardano-cli)" $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos
```

We have to add this line below our shell profile so that the shell/terminal can recognize that `cardano-node` and `cardano-cli` are global commands. (`$HOME/.zshrc` or `$HOME/.bashrc` ***depending on the shell application you use***)

```bash
export PATH="$HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos/:$PATH"
```

Once saved, reload your shell profile by typing `source $HOME/.zshrc` or `source $HOME/.bashrc` (***depending on the shell application you use***).

Check the version that has been installed:
```
cardano-cli --version
cardano-node --version
```
### NOTE: In case you get a "Killed: 9" error when executing either cardano-node or cardano-cli, please delete any existing binary files in the $HOME/cardano-node-1.35.3-macos folder, run a cabal build all and copy the files into the relevant folder. 

Congratulations, you have successfully installed Cardano components into your MacOS system! 🎉🎉🎉

### Now go ahead and use the **2_setup_preview_preprod_networks.md** to setup the relevant preview AND preprod networks.
